Add docs for ingest (#181)
svix/svix-docs: docs/receiving/receiving-with-ingest.mdx

---
title: Using the Ingest API
---

import CodeTabs from '@theme/CodeTabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[Svix Ingest] grants you scalability, security best practices, and
reliability, all with minimal configuration.

Creating a `Source` will generate an endpoint you can share with a webhook
provider as a destination for their webhooks.

Ingest supports a variety of signature verification schemes used by webhook
providers. Supported values for a `Source`'s' `type` include:

- `beehiiv`
- `brex`
- `clerk`
- `github`
- `guesty`
- `hubspot`
- `incidentIo`
- `lithic`
- `nash`
- `pleo`
- `replicate`
- `resend`
- `safebase`
- `sardine`
- `shopify`
- `stripe`
- `stych`
- `svix` (that's us!)
- `zoom`

Additionally there's the option to configure a `Source` as `http` that doesn't

> perform any signature verification at all for cases where the provider has no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
perform any signature verification. This is useful for providers that have no verification scheme
and for providers whose verification scheme is not yet supported by 
Svix Ingest (please contact us so we can add it!).
```

Author: N.b. I have a callout section `:::tip` immediately after this paragraph to ask for new schemes.

You want I should remove the `:::tip`? I'm more inclined to leave it and snip the last line out of your suggestion.

Here's the current text rendered out:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/28bec9e2-0925-4be6-9577-4e9e0a63de01)

signing scheme, or if _they do_ but it isn't yet supported by Ingest.

:::tip
Let us know if your webhook provider isn't yet supported so we can add it!
:::

## Create a Source

Getting started with Ingest is a matter of configuring a `Source`.

```sh
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @- << EOF
{
  "name": "from-github",
  "description": "receives webhooks from GitHub",
  "uid": "from-github",
  "type": "github",
  "config": {
    "secret": "<the signing secret>"
  }
}
EOF
```

## Tell your provider where to send webhooks

The `SourceOut` response will include an `ingestUrl` which is the endpoint you
give to your provider, telling them where to send their webhooks.
For GitHub, as is used in this example, this is referred to as the
_"Payload URL"_.

## Managing incoming messages

Messages received by Ingest are automatically forwarded to a companion Svix
`Application`.

> The `SourceOut` response also includes an `id` field.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should even mention this yet? We don't expose APIs at the moment
that would allow anyone to query the ingest-app directly.

Author: Yeah, I don't know. I wasn't aware of any other way to actually do anything with the messages otherwise. Maybe this is meant to be done in the UI (I have't seen the UI yet).

Reviewer: Currently everything is done in the UI, so I would hold off mentioning specifics about the app. Maybe @tasn thinks differently.

Author: Okay, I'll take a tour of the UI work and redo this section. I was just going by what I know 🤣

Author: I added screenshots of the UI and removed all the mentions of our internal representation.

> This `id` appears in the `ingestUrl`, but is also used to generate the `Uid`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `id` appears in the `ingestUrl` and is also used to generate the `Uid`
```

for the Svix `Application`. The `Uid` will be: `app_<the source id>`.

Managing this companion `Application` for the `Source` is how you can
configure endpoints to forward the incoming webhooks to, check attempts, retry
or recover messages and so on.
This `Application` also means you can monitor your Ingest Source via the App
Portal.

## Managing Source Tokens

Finally, the last portion of the `ingestUrl` is a `Token` which can be
invalidated and rotated:

```sh
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source/src_xxxxx/token/rotate \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}'
```

> `Token`s that are rotated stay viable for 24 hours. This during

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Token`s that are rotated stay viable for 24 hours. During
```

---
title: Receiving Webhooks with Ingest
---

import CodeTabs from '@theme/CodeTabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[Svix Ingest] grants you scalability, security best practices, and

> reliability, all with minimal configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reliability for receiving webhooks, all with minimal configuration.
```

I know it's redundant, but the sentence feels generic/weird without saying 'for what'

Reviewer: Yeah I agree -- "grants you" is also a bit awkward. Maybe the whole thing should be re-worded.

Author: I redid the opening. It's different now, and hopefully less awkward.

provider as a destination for their webhooks.

Ingest supports a variety of signature verification schemes used by webhook
providers. Supported values for a `Source`'s' `type` include:

- `beehiiv`
- `brex`
- `clerk`
- `github`
- `guesty`
- `hubspot`
- `incidentIo`
- `lithic`
- `nash`
- `pleo`
- `replicate`
- `resend`
- `safebase`
- `sardine`
- `shopify`
- `stripe`
- `stych`
- `svix` (that's us!)
- `zoom`

Additionally there's the option to configure a `Source` as `unverified` to skip
performing signature verification. This is useful for providers that have no
verification scheme and for providers whose verification scheme is not yet
supported by Ingest.

:::tip
Let us know if your webhook provider isn't yet supported so we can add it!
:::

## Create a Source

Getting started with Ingest is a matter of configuring a `Source`.

```sh
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @- << EOF
{
  "name": "from-github",
  "description": "receives webhooks from GitHub",
  "uid": "from-github",
  "type": "github",
  "config": {
    "secret": "<the signing secret>"
  }
}
EOF

> ```

Reviewer 2: This is not doing any syntax highlighting 🤔 

<img width="759" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-04 at 5 04 22 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9062f15c-ea75-4518-b6ff-ac355e5cd426">

Author: changed from `sh` to `shell` and I see some colors now.

## Tell your provider where to send webhooks

The `SourceOut` response will include an `ingestUrl` which is the endpoint you
give to your provider, telling them where to send their webhooks.
For GitHub, as is used in this example, this is referred to as the
_"Payload URL"_.

## Managing incoming messages

Messages received by Ingest are automatically forwarded to a companion Svix
`Application`.

The `SourceOut` response also includes an `id` field.
This `id` appears in the `ingestUrl` and is also used to generate the `Uid`
for the Svix `Application`. The `Uid` will be: `app_<the source id>`.

Managing this companion `Application` for the `Source` is how you can
configure endpoints to forward the incoming webhooks to, check attempts, retry
or recover messages and so on.
This `Application` also means you can monitor your Ingest Source via the App
Portal.

## Managing Source Tokens

Finally, the last portion of the `ingestUrl` is a `Token` which can be
invalidated and rotated:

```sh
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source/src_xxxxx/token/rotate \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}'
```

> `Token`s that are rotated stay viable for 24 hours. During

Reviewer 3: I completely glanced over this the first time reading the sentence, why "viable"? Was this meant to say "visible"? I'd probably go for "usable" over both but that's personal test more than anything.

Author: I chose _viable_ (yeah, that was a deliberate choice) because I was thinking about _usable, but not canonical/preferred_. 

It's viable in the way driving around town on a spare tire is viable. I like "usable" for this just fine. I'll change it.

---
title: Ingest Overview
---

import CodeTabs from '@theme/CodeTabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[Svix Ingest] grants you scalability, security best practices, and
reliability, all with minimal configuration.

Creating a `Source` will generate an endpoint you can share with a webhook
provider as a destination for their webhooks.

Ingest supports a variety of signature verification schemes used by webhook
providers. Supported values for a `Source`'s' `type` include:

- `beehiiv`
- `brex`
- `clerk`
- `github`
- `guesty`
- `hubspot`
- `incidentIo`
- `lithic`
- `nash`
- `pleo`
- `replicate`
- `resend`
- `safebase`
- `sardine`
- `shopify`
- `stripe`
- `stych`
- `svix` (that's us!)
- `zoom`

Additionally there's the option to configure a `Source` as `http` that doesn't
perform any signature verification at all for cases where the provider has no
signing scheme, or if _they do_ but it isn't yet supported by Ingest.

:::tip
Let us know if your webhook provider isn't yet supported so we can add it!
:::

## Create a Source

Getting started with Ingest is a matter of configuring a `Source`.

<CodeTabs>

> <TabItem value="curl">

Author: My thinking was we should fill in the rest as soon as this is in the SDK.

I can update these to be plain backtick fences in the meantime though. 👍🏻

```sh
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @- << EOF
{
  "name": "from-github",
  "description": "receives webhooks to from GitHub",
  "uid": "from-github",
  "type": "github",
  "config": {
    "secret": "<the signing secret>"
  }
}
EOF
```

</TabItem>
</CodeTabs>

## Tell your provider where to send webhooks

The `SourceOut` response will include an `ingestUrl` which is the endpoint you
give to your provider, telling them where to send their webhooks.
For GitHub, as is used in this example, this is referred to as the
_"Payload URL"_.

## Managing incoming messages

Messages received by Ingest are automatically forwarded to a companion Svix
`Application`.

The `SourceOut` response also includes an `id` field.
This `id` appears in the `ingestUrl`, but is also used to generate the `Uid`
for the Svix `Application`. The `Uid` will be: `app_<the source id>`.

> Managing this compainion `Application` for the `Source` is how you can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Managing this companion `Application` for the `Source` is how you can
```

> configure endpoints, check attempts, retry or recover messages and so on.

Reviewer 3: Maybe mention what this means in the context of Ingest here, especially for people not very familiar with Svix core? I'm thinking something as simple as

```suggestion
configure endpoints to forward the incoming webhooks to, check attempts, retry or recover messages and so on.
```

could already help some people.

This `Application` also means you can monitor your Ingest Source via the App
Portal.

## Managing Source Tokens

Finally, the last portion of the `ingestUrl` is a `Token` which can be
invalidated and rotated:

<CodeTabs>
<TabItem value="curl">

```sh
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source/src_xxxxx/token/rotate \

>   -X POST \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{}'
```

</TabItem>
</CodeTabs>

> `Token`s that are rotated stay viable for a short grace period. This during

Reviewer 3: The rotate API reference says 24 hours, why not be more precise here?

```suggestion
`Token`s that are rotated stay viable for 24 hours. This during
```

---
title: Ingest Overview
---

import CodeTabs from '@theme/CodeTabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[Svix Ingest] grants you scalability, security best practices, and reliability,
all with minimal configuration.

Creating a `Source` will generate an endpoint you can share with a webhook
provider as a destination for their webhooks.

Ingest supports a variety of signature verification schemes used by webhook
providers. Supported values for a `Source`'s' `type` include:

> - `beehiiv`

Reviewer 4: I like that these are alphabetical

- `brex`
- `clerk`
- `github`
- `guesty`
- `hubspot`
- `incidentIo`
- `lithic`
- `nash`
- `pleo`
- `replicate`
- `resend`
- `safebase`
- `sardine`
- `shopify`
- `stripe`
- `stych`
- `svix` (that's us!)
- `zoom`

> Additionally there's the option to configure a `Source` as `http` that doesn't

Author: I'm feeling like we should rename the `http` source type to `unverified` or something. 

It was confusing to the team when discussed during grooming, with folks assuming it had something to do with http vs https.

Reviewer 4: I agree

Author: Updated this to mention `unverified` and I've got a PR up to make that a real option in the backend.

Author: I set this back to HTTP for the time being because we haven't yet agreed on what this should be called.

Right now, my best idea is "other"

perform any signature verification at all for cases where the provider doesn't
implement any signing scheme, or if they do but it isn't yet supported.

:::tip
Let us know if your webhook provider isn't yet supported so we can add it!
:::

## Create a Source

Getting started with Ingest is a matter of configuring a `Source`.

<CodeTabs>
<TabItem value="curl">

```sh
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @- << EOF
{
  "name": "from-github",

>   "description": "receives webhooks to from GitHub",

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  "description": "receives webhooks from GitHub",
```

---
title: Receiving Webhooks with Ingest
---

import CodeTabs from '@theme/CodeTabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Receiving webhooks with [Svix Ingest] starts with creating a `Source`.

A `Source` generates an endpoint you can share with a webhook provider as a
destination for their webhooks.

Ingest supports a variety of signature verification schemes and flows used by
webhook providers. Supported values for a `Source`'s' `type` include:

- `beehiiv`
- `brex`
- `clerk`
- `github`
- `guesty`
- `hubspot`
- `incidentIo`
- `lithic`
- `nash`
- `pleo`
- `replicate`
- `resend`
- `safebase`
- `sardine`
- `shopify`
- `stripe`
- `stych`
- `svix` (that's us!)
- `zoom`

Additionally there's the option to configure a `Source` as `http` to skip
performing signature verification. This is useful for providers that have no
verification scheme and for providers whose verification scheme is not yet
supported by Ingest.

:::tip
Let us know if your webhook provider isn't yet supported so we can add it!
:::

## Create a Source

> Getting started with Ingest is a matter of configuring n `Source`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Getting started with Ingest is a matter of configuring a `Source`.
```

This can be done from either the API:

```shell
curl https://api.svix.com/ingest/api/v1/source \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $SVIX_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @- << EOF
{
  "name": "demo",
  "uid": "demo",
  "type": "github",
  "config": {
    "secret": "<the signing secret>"
  }
}
EOF
```

or from the Ingest Dashboard:

![screenshot of the Ingest Dashboard showing the overview tab for a Source named "demo"](../../static/img/ingest/source-edit.png)

## Tell your provider where to send webhooks

The `IngestSourceOut` response from the API will include an `ingestUrl` which is
the endpoint you give to your provider, telling them where to send their
webhooks.

The `ingestUrl` is also listed on the Ingest Dashboard for each `Source`.

For GitHub, as is used in this example, this is referred to as the
_"Payload URL"_.

## Managing incoming messages

> In the Ingest Dashboard, the Destinations tab for your Source is where you can

Reviewer 2: link to Ingest dashboard?

Author: I linkified any place it's mentioned like this.

configure Endpoints, view logs, inspect message payloads, etc.

![screenshot of the Ingest Dashboard showing the Destination/Endpoints tab for a Source named "demo"](../../static/img/ingest/destination-endpoints.png)

> Configuring endpoints allows you to forward messages received by Ingest over to
> other webhook receivers using Svix Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuring endpoints allows you to forward messages received by Ingest over to
the endpoints you choose using Svix Core.
```

Reviewer 2: or it feels like it's some other ingest source or something
